24310065 Using Spring Boot on a Closed Network

I'm very interested in being able to use Spring Boot, but I'm at a road block
at work. I have to work in a closed network, with no internet access. Spring
Boot is heavily dependent (or wholly dependent?) on Maven or Gradle from what
I can tell. I can't find any references on how to use Boot without those build
tools, and instead using ant.

One thought I had was to create a local Nexus repository for Maven, but I'm
still restricted by that closed network, so I would have to manually download
each and every dependency, and then again if I wanted an updated jar or file.
That kind of defeats the purpose of Maven.

I was wondering how you might create a simple boot application in an
offline/closed Network without the use of Maven or Gradle, and instead using a
pure ant build process?

> I can't find any references on how to use Boot without those build tools,
and instead using ant.

There's a section on using Ant in the Spring Boot [reference
guide](http://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current-
SNAPSHOT/reference/htmlsingle/#howto-build-an-executable-archive-with-ant). In
general, I would say you are severely hampered if you can't use a modern
dependency management system, whatever languages and frameworks you are using
for your application (Java, node, python, ruby, etc.). So there are zillions
of people in the same situation, and I'd be surprised if you couldn't find a
way to use Maven or Gradle. In any case Boot (and Spring) are not in any way
tied to those things; it just happens that there are some plugins that make
using them easier.

One way you can do in a closed network is to setup your own Maven repository
using Nexus. If you have an unused computer or a server that can run 24/7, you
can install a Nexus repository there and point to it. Another way you can do
is to manually download the required JAR files and keep it in local with the
project folder and point to the local path with build.gradle. But in the
second case, if you do that, the whole benefit of Gradle is kinda lost.

